Add Adding Armor article (#61)
QuiltMC/developer-wiki: wiki/items/armor.md

---
title: Adding an Armor Set
index: 3
---
# Adding an Armor Set

This tutorial will assume that you already understand [Creating your First Item](first-item)

## Creating an Armor Material

To add an armor set, you start by creating an armor material. It defines the basic properties of your armor, such as the durability, the armor value, or the toughness.
For this you create a new armor material class:

`src/main/com/example/example_mod/ExampleArmorMaterial`:

```java

> public class ExampleArmorMaterial implements ArmorMaterial {

Reviewer: I would also mention you can make this an enum (like minecraft) if you have multiple material types.

    //...
```

Replace the path with the appropriate values from your mod, and name the armor material according to your base resource. For example, an armor material based of emeralds would be called `EmeraldArmorMaterial`.

---

Now let's continue by adding the durability and armor values:

```java
private static final int[] durability = new int[]{100,160,100,100};

> private static final int[] protection = new int[]{2,8,4,2};

Reviewer: These should be `SCREAM_CASE`

@Override
public int getDurability(ArmorItem.ArmorSlot slot) {
	return durability[slot.getEquipmentSlot().getEntitySlotId()];
}

@Override
public int getProtection(ArmorItem.ArmorSlot slot) {
	return protection[slot.getEquipmentSlot().getEntitySlotId()];
}
```

Here, we use a neat trick: `slot.getEquipmentSlot().getEntitySlotId()` will return a value between 0 and 3 based on the piece, so we can simply take those as an index for an array.
The protection corresponds to the Armor's armor value.

---

> Next we'll define the enchantability. This defines how good the enchantments in an enchantment table will get. For example netherite armor and gold armor have a high enchantability.

Reviewer: Maybe link the enchantability table? Im sure the minecraft wiki has it

Registry.register(Registries.ITEM, new Identifier(mod.metadata().id(), "example_item_leggings"), EXAMPLE_LEGGINGS);
Registry.register(Registries.ITEM, new Identifier(mod.metadata().id(), "example_item_boots"), EXAMPLE_BOOTS);
ItemGroupEvents.modifyEntriesEvent(ItemGroups.COMBAT).register(entries -> {
	entries.addAfter(Items.NETHERITE_BOOTS, EXAMPLE_HELMET, EXAMPLE_CHESTPLATE, EXAMPLE_LEGGINGS, EXAMPLE_BOOTS);
});
```

## Adding textures for the armor

Now that we have the armor registered, the only things missing are the textures and translations.
For armors, you have to provide two textures. One for the items themselves, and one for the armor that is rendered on the player model.

<!-- TODO: the desectionization fails if nested like this. See svelte.config.json -->
<!-- ### Adding the texture to the Item-->

---

Adding the texture to the item is the same as any normal item: You need to add a model and a texture. For example, here is the model file for an example helmet:

```json
{
	"parent": "item/generated",
	"textures": {
		"layer0": "example_mod:item/example_item_helmet"
	}
}
```

> Repeat this for all your armor's items, replacing mod id and item name, and add the corresponding textures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Repeat this for all your armor's items, replacing `example_mod` and `example_item_helmet` with your modid and item name, and add the corresponding textures.
```

<!-- TODO: the desectionization fails if nested like this. See svelte.config.json -->
<!-- ### Adding the texture for the player model -->

---

Now the armor should look right in the inventory, but when you put it on, it will still show the missing texture. For that one to work we also need to add the armor model. The armor model basically consists of two textures that are organized like a player skin. However, different armor parts only draw different parts of that texture.
Shoes, Helmet, and Chestplate use the `layer_1` texture (and have a lot more distance from the player skin itself) and Leggings use the `layer_2` texture.
If you want, you can use this example texture as a template. The different armor parts use different tones to try help differentiating them.

> `assets/minecraft/models/armor/example_item_layer_1.png`:  

Reviewer: I need to double check, but you might be able to move these out of the `minecraft` directory. If you can't i would mention that it needs to be in the `minecraft` namespace or the textures will not be found.

`assets/minecraft/models/armor/example_item_layer_2.png`:  
![An example armor layer 2 texture](example_item_layer_2.png)<br><a href="example_item_layer_2.png" target="_blank">example_item_layer_2.png</a>

Replace use your armor material's name for instead of `example_item` in the path. It is important that the models are located in the `minecraft` namespace.

Now that you have added these, and reloaded your game, you should be able to view your fancy armor!

> ## Finishing It Up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Final Steps
```

> The final step is to [add translation keys](../items/first-item#language-translation) for your armor's items. Once you've done that, you might also want to [add recipes for your armor](../data/adding-recipes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last thing to do is [adding translation keys](../items/first-item#language-translation) for your armor's items. Once you've done that, you might also want to [add recipes for your armor](../data/adding-recipes).
```
